
	Telangana tunnel collapse Day 10: Location of eight people unknown, search operation to take 2-3 days to locate them: CM Revanth Reddy - The Hindu

March 3, 2025e-Paper

									The Hindu On Books
									Books of the week, reviews, excerpts, new titles and features.


									Data Point
									Decoding the headlines with facts, figures, and numbers


									First Day First Show
									News and reviews from the world of cinema and streaming.


									Health Matters
									Ramya Kannan writes to you on getting to good health, and staying there


									The View From India
									Looking at World Affairs from the Indian perspective.


									Science For All
									The weekly newsletter from science writers takes the jargon out of science and puts the fun in!


									Karnataka Today
									Your daily dose of news highlights from Karnataka


									Today's Cache
									Your download of the top 5 technology stories of the day.

March 3, 2025e-Paper
Updated  - March 03, 2025 12:58 pm IST 

                        Telangana Chief Minister A. Revanth Reddy visits the incident site and reviews the situation, in Nagarkurnool on Sunday. 
                                                  | Photo Credit:  
                          ANI
                                              
Telangana Chief Minister Revanth Reddy visited the Srisailam Left Bank Canal (SLBC) tunnel site on Sunday (March 2, 2025) to assess the ongoing rescue operation as eight workers continue to be trapped inside. 
The exact whereabouts of the eight persons trapped under the debris, about 14 km inside the Srisailam Left Bank Canal (SLBC) tunnel, is not known precisely even to the rescue agencies due to the very high thick sheet of over 5-metre-deep mud and it would be taking another 2 or 3 days to locate them, Chief Minister A. Revanth Reddy has said.
Also Read | Telangana tunnel collapse Day 9 highlights
The Chief Minister said the possible location of persons trapped was only a primary assessment and it was not possible for the government to make any announcement on their condition sans any evidence.
Meanwhile, the team leaders of key rescue agencies involved in tracing the eight persons informed Chief Minister A. Revanth Reddy that debris removal in the last 20 metres of the tunnel is most problematic and challenging.
Also Read | Rescue agencies suggest alternative small-diametre tunnels to skip unstable strata
Since that portion of the tunnel, particularly its left flank and roof, is still loose and not stable with seepage of water in high volume going on, the government could consider alternative tunnel roots from the 13.45 km from the mouth to link it with the original path where the stable strata is available.
In a fillip to the rescue operation, a team from National Centre of Seismology under the Ministry of Earth Sciences would arrive at SLBC site in Domalapenta of Nagarkurnool district along with their equipment on Tuesday (March 4, 2025).
Read more here
In a major breakthrough, the South Central Railway’s (SCR) mechanical engineering team has managed to cut the platform of the damaged Tunnel Boring Machine (TBM) deep inside the collapsed Srisailam Left Bank Canal (SLBC) tunnel late on Sunday (March 2, 2025) night facilitating faster removal of metal debris.
Read more here
South Central Railway's mechanical team cuts TBM platform in collapsed portion of Telangana SLBC tunnel, accelerating debris removal and rescue efforts.
NDRF Commandant VVN Prasanna Kumar said on Monday that operation to save eight workers trapped following the collapse of the SLBC tunnel collapsed was are underway at full capacity, with around twelve agencies working around the clock to locate the trapped victims.
“Actually, the operation is going on in full swing. Approximately twelve agencies are working around the clock to find the victims. Unfortunately, we have not been able to locate them so far,” said the National Disaster Response Force Commandant.
He further stated that both the Telangana and Central governments have deployed top experts from across the country to assist in the complex tunnel operation.
“Due to the complexity of the tunnel operation, we could not achieve success so far. However, maximum manpower is engaged in a planned manner, and hopefully, we will get success in a short time,” Kumar said
Launching a tirade against BRS president K Chandrasekhar Rao and Union Minister G Kishan Reddy, Telangana Chief Minister A Revanth Reddy on Sunday alleged that Rao, who was CM for 10 years, ignored irrigation projects, including SLBC where the tunnel collapsed partially.
“Though we (previous Congress governments) started SLBC and completed 32 kms (of tunnel), you carried out two of 10 kms and left it to dry up. SLBC project collapsed as work stopped...Is it not your sin, Chandrasekhar Rao,” he asked.
Rao, also known as KCR, ignored several projects of Mahabubnagar during his tenure as chief minister despite serving as Mahabubnagar MP earlier, he claimed.
Kishan Reddy is obstructing permissions from Centre for expansion of Hyderabad Metro Rail project, Musi rejuvenation project and Regional Ring Road in Hyderabad and others, the CM claimed.
The team leaders of key rescue agencies involved in tracing the eight persons trapped in the Srisailam Left Bank Canal (SLBC) tunnel since February 22 morning have informed Chief Minister A. Revanth Reddy that debris removal in the last 20 metres of the tunnel is most problematic and challenging.
Since that portion of the tunnel, particularly its left flank and roof, is still loose and not stable with seepage of water in high volume going on, the government could consider alternative tunnel roots from the 13.45 km from the mouth to link it with the original path where the stable strata is available. It could be done by taking up two tunnels dug from either side with 5-metre diameter each to handle the designed discharge capacity of 4,000 cusecs.
Rescue agencies face challenges in removing debris to rescue eight trapped persons in Srisailam tunnel, proposing alternative tunnel routes.
The exact whereabouts of the eight persons trapped under the debris, about 14 km inside the Srisailam Left Bank Canal (SLBC) tunnel, is not known precisely even to the rescue agencies due to the very high thick sheet of over 5-metre-deep mud and it would be taking another 2 or 3 days to locate them, Chief Minister A. Revanth Reddy has said.
Speaking to newspersons at the base office of the work agency at the tunnel mouth near Domalapenta village on Sunday night after reviewing the rescue work with the agencies involved in it and visiting the tunnel, the Chief Minister said the possible location of persons trapped was only a primary assessment and it was not possible for the government to make any announcement on their condition sans any evidence.
Chief Minister Revanth Reddy updates on the rescue efforts for eight trapped persons in Srisailam tunnel.
 Published - March 03, 2025 07:07 am IST

                        Telangana
                    
                            /                      
                        
                        disaster management
                    
                            /                      
                        
                        Live news
                    
                            /                      
                        
                        disaster (general)
                    

					Copyright© 2025, THG PUBLISHING PVT LTD. or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved.
				
BACK TO TOP
Terms & conditions  |  Institutional Subscriber
Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines   for posting your comments. 
We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.
